# Ideal Document Generation

QMOHI quantifies the quality of the information on SHC websites based on several metrics. One of the metrics, similarity, represents the information relevancy between SHC websites and the ideal health information for a specific topic. The similarity calculation requires ideal documents and compares them with the text data extracted from SHC websites. Manually composing ideal documents typically needs the help of medical experts in order to ensure the accuracy and reliability and thus takes time. 

Ideal Document Generator, a system to automatically generate ideal documents, aim to completely replace the task. The current design of Ideal Document Generator has three components: 1) Retrieve URLs for a given term using [MedlinePlus Web Service](https://medlineplus.gov/about/developers/webservices/). 2) Extract text on the web pages and export to the output file. 3) Crawl internal links as deep as user specified depth. 


### How to Install

Make sure you are working with Python 3.9+. At the root of the project, run:

```
python -r Requirements.txt
```

### How to Use

At the root of the project, pass a term to search and run: 

```
python ideal_document_generator_xml.py [term]
```

For example, 

```
python ideal_document_generator_xml.py abortion
```

`ideal_document_generator.py` uses Google Customizable Search Engine instead of [MedlinePlus Web Service](https://medlineplus.gov/about/developers/webservices/).

```
python ideal_document_generator.py [term]
```


### Output Example

Output examples are in the path `util/Ideal Document Generation/example`.



## Similarity Test

To evaluate the performance of ideal documents generated by Ideal Document Generator, the test program `test_similarity.py` calculates similarity between generated ideal documents and the SHC websites cache data QMOHI collected. 